Were you successful let's solve it together.
I'll leave instructions here and above that I want to put an array of hobbies so add on to the list
and I need to have an array of hobbies in the up component I'll get rid of the title here and simply
add a new hobby's property.
It's an empty array.
And since my hobbies are strings I will set to type 2 string array.
Now I will add some default values and since I do that I could have omitted the type definition only
that here just to be clear though.
And I'll add cooking and sportier knouted we have these hobbies.
I can output them by adding a list item here and in this list item I want to output the individual hobbies
I want to loop for all hobbies.
Well we learned that we can use Ngee for for this here doesn't X was a let and then any name you like
like hobby off a hobby is so off the property we have here.
This will loop for all the hobbies here and with that I can use string deflation to output the individual
hobby.
Now if we save this and make sure Engy service still running.
Restart it if you've created a new project or if you downloaded my project so restart Engy serve and
you should see cooking and sportier awesome.
Now of course that's not all I want to add a new hobby button and an input field.
So let's add in part here and then let me add a button whereas a new hobby.
Now to get the value the user entered.
I will use two way data binding here so I will simply add new hobby input as a property.
The name is totally up to you and it's empty string by default.
Now in my template I can bind it with Engy model remember to add both the square brackets and the parentheses
and you model and bind this to new hobby input that will get the data.
Now I will add a click listener on the new hobby button where I'll execute on a new hobby and this method
needs to be added to my app component type script file and an on new hobby.
We could check if new hobby input is an empty string or not so if it's a valid data I will leave out
the check.
I will just reach out to my hobbies and now push this new hobby import onto desiré.
Now why push and not concat as indie re-act example because Anglo works differently.
Unlike the state management and react here we don't have to be so secure about using immutable objects
so we can simply mutate the existing array here.
That's totally OK and that's just how we did it in the view as example.
So now we can save this and we should be able to enter reading here.
Like new hobby and Attis as often as we want.
Also if you check the console we shouldn't see any error or warning.
So one thing to note is that we don't need to add a key here like we did need to react.
Angler will manage to stay friendly so that is the next task.
Solved.
Adding the apartment input.
Now we want to make the hobbies clickable so that we can remove them.
Nothing easier than that.
I will simply split these lines to make it easier to read and then I'll add a click listener to the
hobby and I want to execute on remove Harbi year and a little past the hobby I want to remove as argument
here.
Now I can use only move as a method in my typescript code.
And here I noted I will get the hobby which in the end is just a string.
Keep that in mind.
Now I can find out where it is hubby lives are stored in the constants and so don't plan on changing
does variable and a name and position name is up to you and I'll reach out to my hobbies and with index
of a built in method provided by arrays.
I can find this specific string in there.
So now that I found this element I can of course remove it.
So here I can now called this hobby's splice the same method as in the view Exxon-Mobile to remove a
given element.
So here I passed the position and then one since I only want to remove this element.
This always splice will remove it.
Now he's saved this and I add reading here and maybe also running sports reading that works just as
a side note if you have the same string multiple times it'll actually only removed the first one all
the time.
But of course it doesn't make a difference to us here because it is the exact same string.
So that is the next task solved.
Now I want to display how deleted as soon as we did delete at least one so I'll add a new paragraph
here where else say Harbi deleted and we can use NGF with a star to check whether a hobby was deleted.
Now I will again use the same approach as in the other modules.
I'll add a new property to my type of class hobby was deleted and by default it's false.
So that's a boolean set to false.
But as soon as we call on remove Harbi all said Hobby was deleted.
Too true.
Now we have a boolean which is changed at some point of time.
We can simply used as boolean here so we can simply refer to how we was deleted to that property which
holds true or false.
If we now save this and we again add reading but we don't even have to add this here if I click on one
to remove it we see hobby deleted.
So that does also work.
Onto the next task I want to add does hobby counter.
So let's add another paragraph here.
Where I'll say hobbies and then it's super easy to output the number of hobbies I can simply refer to
my hobbies array and then output the length that's all.
Now that was simple right.
If I do this use the hobby's to here and if I start adding more this number grows and if I delete hobby's
it shrinks.
So that is how I can add this counter onto the dynamic styles.
I one to style my hobby countered inimically depending on whether I have more or less than free hobby's.
So what I can do to change to style is I can of course use and style so I'll wrap this in square brackets
since I need to pass some data to this directive.
And here I'll pass a javascript object.
Now it's totally up to you on how you want to style this.
I will change the text color here by binding to color see us as property and I want to set it to red
if we have more than free and black so the default if we have less than 3 or equal to free will I can
simply check hobby's length and see if it's greater than free.
If that's the case using that turn their expression here all set the color to read overwise.
Also the two black.
No that's all if I now had save.
You see it's black but if I start adding new hobbies as soon as it go above free hobbies to Hobby counter
becomes red.
So that's great and if I remove hobbies to go below for well then we have the black color again.
No dad was using N-G style.
Why don't we also use energy class and I can do this by defining this class here so I'll name it.
Multiple hobbies and they're asked before I want to set my border to one pixel solid and red.
Now I want to add just KLOS if we have more than three hobbies so I can simply add another directive
here.
It's Angie Clauss.
And here again I pass a javascript object now with the key being the class name.
I have to wrap it in quotation marks since my class name model hobby's contains a dash.
Multiple hobbies.
And now the value is if the should be attached or not.
So true or false.
So again I'll add my check of Hobbes length is greater than 3.
Now if I do that and we go back to the running application we don't see any special special styling.
If I add one hobby nothing changes.
If I add another one with the red color and the red border CDnow it indeed did change and it applies
both dynamic styles onto the final task.
Let's outsource the hobby element.
So this list item into its own component and you learned how to do this or create a new folder here
and I'll name it hobby.
The name is up to you but again since I have a single hobby in there it kind of makes sense.
Now add a new component file hobby darts component or TS.
Following that convention of describing what's inside the file and here in this hobby component types
can fall or export my class.
The hobby component
and here I will add at component which needs to be imported from at angular core.
As you learned now here I want to define a select or app hobby maybe to have a unique selector and as
you learned we need a template you could use template you are l to have a relative path to an external
file or just template to have an inline template.
Here I'll go with the latter approach.
I'll add back ticks to again be able to write a modeline string and here I can simply go to my app component
HMO file and basically copy that code here.
Add it here.
Remove Engy for I don't want to repeat the element inside of that component.
I leave to click listener here and I'll leave hubby here.
However I don't have to pass Hawi to remove hobby year and year.
I now need to add the hobby property to that class.
It's a string I want to be able to set us from outside so as you learned.
I also have to add input here to be able to do so and we need to import import from an Anglo core.
Now hobby can be passed in from outside backwood renamed to Hobby name so that we don't have any naming
confusion with the names you use outside of this component.
However it doesn't really matter just for you to have an easier differentiation.
So hobby name set from outside.
I'll take care about the listener later.
For now I will only at the on remove hobby method to your now India component I want to use my new component.
So we named it app hobby right.
So I'll use that as a tag.
I want to loop through my hobbies and still repeat this component as often as needed for all my hobbies.
I'll remove the click listener here don't need debt and I don't use string or jubilation here.
Instead I need to pass the data.
Q My hobby component.
So here I'm one a blind to my hobby name property I have here so let's do that.
Hobby name and that was the reason why I renamed it so that it's easier to differentiate because here
I will pass Harbi so that variable of my loop.
Note that I just need to remove that so that the Linter doesn't complain that we have valid code style
here.
Now we would almost be able to use this.
But do you remember what's missing.
Well let's have a look at the running app.
Or D not running app.
If we open the console we get an error we saw before that Apple B isn't a known element.
Of course it isn't because we didn't add it to app Marchal.
You must not forget this.
So let's go to declarations and add our hobby component and its import pointing to that hobby component
file here.
Once we added the two declarations.
Now if I save this we see that's looking good and if I start adding hobby's again that's all working.
Removing doesn't work though because our own remove Harbi thing doesn't do anything.
So let's make that thing that method to work is basically one to emit my own event here.
So did the parent component the app component here.
I can listen to it and then added my array.
Well nothing easier than that.
You learned how to create your own event.
We could name and Harbi removed any name you like and we use the event emitter which we import from
at a lower court we need the new keyword to create an instance of this class.
And here we need parentheses.
And also since this is a generic type D is smaller than and greater than signs to tell which kind of
data do we mature.
Here it's going to be a string.
Now since we emit a string here in on remove hobby I will simply call Harbi removed emit and emit does
hobby name.
So our property here which is a string of course again.
So we can listen to it as he went from outside.
I need to add at output in front of it with parentheses.
Don't forget these and then import output from.
At a low cost.
Now if they can go back to the component HMO file and listen to that event on our custom component here.
So here all now listen to.
Be removed and now I can execute my method on remove hobby or I'll name it on Harbi remove to be a bit
more in line with our custom event name on hobby removed.
Execute this here and where important past dollar sign event.
So extract the data or use this very well.
Angler gives us to extract the data we emit no dollar sign event we'll just hold the string in the end
because that is what we emit.
So dead code here should still work.
Now with that if I save this one final time we opened Konsole to check any errors.
If I add reading here that works and now if I start removing elements that also works again and that
are all the tasks solved.
That's our regular exercise finished.
I hope a lot of these concepts now are clearer to you and you feel confident using these very basics
of angular.